The Meanings of:
(1) - Allahumma innaa 'ibaaduka...
(2) - Faaliqa-l-Habbi wa-n-Nawaa...
(3) - Allahumma inna nas-aluka...

                                            
                                                            (1)
ENGLISH: 
I call on You O! Allah, certainly we are Your slaves, children of Your slaves, and children of Your maidservants, ourforelocks are in Your Hands (i.e. controls all our affairs; what we'll be, what we'll be not, etc.), Your commands over us is ever executed, and Your decree over us is ever just, we ask You by every Name belonging to You; which You named Yourself with, or revealed in Your Book, or You taught to any of Your creations, or You have preserved in the Knowledge of the Unseen with You, that You make the Qur'aan the spring* of our hearts, and the light of our chests, and a departure for our sorrows, and a release from our anxieties.
*Spring - The word literally means the second season in the year which comes after winter (a season in which almost everything dies because of the terrible cold) and brings with it new life to all; plants, trees, insects, fishes, animals and humans. It is a period in which anyone who has experienced the hardships of winter looks forward to, as anyone who has passed through trials and tribulations will look forward to the promise of ease and hope. So this word here means the promise of a new dawn, a new beginning, a new opportunity in life to make it.
And this supplication is recommended by the Holy Prophet (S.A.W.) to be recited anytime you finish your recitation of the Holy Qur'aan, be it whole or in part.

YORUBA:
Mope Ire Olohun, dajudaju eruu Re niwa, omo awon eruu Re niwa, atipe omo awon erubirin Re niwa, gbogbo atari wa Owo Re lowa, gbogbo ase Re nse le wa lori, atipe deede ni gbogbo idajo Re le wa lori, awa ntoro pelu gbogbo Oruko ti o nbe fun Ire, eyiti O fi so Ara re, abi eyiti O sokale ninu Tira Re, abi eyiti O fi mo eyikeyi ninu awon edaa Re, abi eyiti O fi pamo sinu Imo Ikoko lodo Re, wipe ki O fi Kurani se itutu pese awon okan wa, ati imole awon igbaaya wa, ati imu kuro awon ibanuje wa, ati itusile kuro ninu awon ifoya wa.


                                                             (2) 

ENGLISH:
The Splitter of the seed-grain and fruit-stone (like date-stone, etc.)
The One Who expands the earth and all that it contains (i.e. makes it spacious for us and makes access to everthing we need in it easy for us),
We call on our God and the God of all creations,
We call on our Lord and the Lord of all wonders, amazements, bewilderments, surprises, miracles etc.,
We call on our Master and the Master of all precious and valuable things (our needs, etc.),
We ask from You redemption and deliverence from all forms of failure, as well as success and security in all our affairs,
We ask from You redemption and deliverence from all forms of evil, as well as success and security in all our affairs,
We ask from You redemption and deliverance from all forms of deceptions of the Shaytaan, as well as success and security in all our affairs,
And we ask from You redemption and deliverance from all those who envy and wish bad for us, as well as success and security in all our affairs.


YORUBA:
Mope Olufo koro (eso) ati koro dabidun,
Mope Olute perese ile ati gbogbo ohun ti o wa ninu e,
Mope Ire Olohun wa ati Olohun gbogbo eda ti o nbe,
Mope Ire Oga wa ati Oga fun gbogbo awon nkan meremere ati iyalenu,
Mope Ire Oluwa wa ati Oluwa gbogbo nkan ti o niyi ti o si joju,
Awa ntoro alaafia lodo Re kuro nibi gbogbo aseti patapata, ati ere ati Ola ninu gbogbo oro wa patapata,
Awa ntoro alaafia lodo Re kuro nibi gbogbo aburu patapata, ati ere ati Ola ninu gbogbo oro wa patpata,
Awa ntoro alaafia lodo Re kuro nibi gbogbo itanje Esu patapata, ati ere ati Ola ninu gbogbo oro wa patapata,
Atipe awa ntoro alaafia lodo Re kuro ni odo gbogbo oni keeta patapata, ati ere ati Ola ninu gbogbo oro wa patapata.



                                                             (3)



ENGLISH:
O! Allah we ask You by Your greatest Name, and by Your Power that is Eternal, and by Your Bounty that is Most Noble of all,
and by Your Light that is Most Adequate, and by Your Word that is Most Decisive; certainly His command, when He intends a thing is only that He says to it, "Be!" - and it is! So glorified be He and exalted above all that they associate with Him, and in Whose Hands is the dominion of all things, and to Him You shall be returned.

YORUBA:
Olohun Oba awa ntoro pelu Oruko Re ti O tobi julo, ati pelu Agbara Re ti O je ti lailai, ati pelu Ola Re ti O laponle julo, ati pelu Imole Re ti O fi nse deedee julo, ati pelu Oro Re ti O fi nlagbara julo; dajudaju Ase Re, nigbati O ba ti fe nkankan ko ju wipe ki O so fun wipe, "Maa be!" - nkan naa yoo si maa be! Nitorinaa ogo ni fun Eniti ijoba gbogbo nkan nbe ni Owo Re atipe odo Re ni a o da yin pada si.


NB: And by the way the meaning of the words,'Zaynul-'Aabideen' is 'The embelishment or decoration or beauty of the Sincere worshippers of Allah (Eso awon olusin Olohun)'.

How i so much wish i could explain these supplictions to you verbally because you can never fully appreciate them from the meanings i have given even though most of the meanings i got from Baba himself. But i cannot type the explanations for it is too much for me to type, but i hope and pray it benefits you as it has done those from whom we have inherited them.                                                        
                                                           